hello and welcome to today's verified
live the Hezbollah leader Hassan nasala
has given his first public response to
two days of attacks in Lebanon using
sabotage communication devices he
described the attacks as an
unprecedented blow to the Iran backed
militant group but vowed to continue to
fight Israel the number of people killed
by exploding pages and walkie-talkies
has risen to 37 with over 3,000 people
wounded the Hezbollah leader said the
operation CR C all red
lines thousands of pages were targeted
by the Israeli enemy and detonated at
the same
time with this operation the enemy
crossed all rules laws and red
lines he didn't care about anything at
all not morally not humanely not
legally let's go live to Beirut live to
our correspondent Hugo Bea Hugo you
listen to the entirety of that give me
your
analysis yeah I think it was very
interesting that he acknowledged that
this was a massive security blow
unprecedented uh in the history of uh
Hezbollah uh and uh as expected uh he
promised a harsh punishment uh but he
didn't give any indication of how this
response is going to be but I think it
was also interesting that uh there was
no change uh in hezbollah's position
again the indication is that Hezbollah
is not interested in an escalation in
this conflict with Israel we've seen
that uh for almost a year Hezbollah has
been attacking uh positions in Northern
Israel saying that this is in solidarity
with Palestinians in Gaza Hassan azraa
again said that this campaign these
attacks are going to continue unless
there is a ceasefire uh in Gaza so this
has been the main hope here to
deescalate the distinctions between
Israel and Hezbollah and those
negotiations for a ceasefire in Gaza
have been unable to reach a deal uh
Hassan nazala also reflected on uh those
decisions that have been taken by the
Israeli authorities to add the return of
those residents who've been displaced
from communities in Northern Israel uh
as one of the war goals he said that uh
these um attempts by Israel will not
succeed and again that these attacks by
Hezbollah are going to to continue so no
clear indication of what Hezbollah is
going to do again has expected some
harsh words against Israel saying that
these attacks that happened here uh in
Lebanon amounted to a declaration of war
he said it was a massacre uh and again
uh reflecting on the suffering of the
population here over the last two days
Hugo as you were talking there we were
showing pictures of those Israeli jets
that screamed really low over Beirut
earlier at the start part of that speech
you've been there in the city over the
last couple of days I was talking to
someone from Beirut only in the last
hour who was saying how different the
last 48 hours have felt there what has
it been
like exactly and it has been different
because we've seen that this conflict
has been by and large contained to areas
along the border between Lebanon and and
Israel and now what's happened in the
last two days is that this conflict has
been felt by the population here of
Beirut and other parts of Lebanon and
obviously people here are scared they're
very angry as well uh because of the
extent of these attacks these are
explosions that happened as people were
shopping were uh with their families at
home children are among the dead um uh
but again uh these are explosions that
happened uh across the country and
including in several parts here of
Beirut creating Panic uh in the
population one of our producers received
a message from a friend saying that she
was uh replacing her Lebanese seam card
with an international one because he was
concerned that her phone could explode
so I think this gives you a sense of the
feeling here of how scared uh the
population is after those uh two days of
attacks you go live for us there in
Beirut thanks very much let's continue
with this with our chief International
correspondent Lee duet who's here with
me
leas it was fascinating listening to the
different stages of nasan HZ talking
there how weakened is Hezbollah do you
think well of course he put on a very
brave face today saying that their
Communications Network had not been
shattered but from everything that we
have seen and just the numbers alone uh
right across the country also in pagers
and walkie-talkies are exploding in also
in Syria and and in Iran it is clear
that their Communications nwor has been
crippled their confidence has been
struck um and also it you heard from
Hassan n that this was the most
devastating most humiliating blow
unprecedented uh for them so yes they
are in many many ways they are weakened
by it and the question will be they're
now the they will now feel HonorBound
and this is what we're hearing from
Hassan nasah he talked about a reckoning
they have to show that they are able and
willing uh to strike back and some of
our colleagues who follow his statements
really really closely are saying that
what's different in this speech this
time we've had many defiant speeches
from Hassan Nilla since the events of
October the 7th and throughout this
Rising tension along that Lebanese
Israeli border that he always says when
they're struck in the in the in the
aftermath we reserve the right to
respond at an appropriate time and place
this time he warned Israelis you will
not just hear the response you will see
it this time well that's interesting and
interesting that you pick out those
words what do you make of Israel's
strategy the sorts of decisions that
have been made over the last three days
adding a new war aim we saw that Sunday
night then talking about a new phase of
the war then moving troops to the North
of Israel yes there's been a steady drum
beat isn't there the eve of this uh what
has to be called a mass casualty attack
even though Israel says it has
pinpointed as you've been reporting
we've been reporting ever since they
happened they it was very discriminate
they went off in markets and Father's
hands when their children were close by
well just before that prime minister
Netanyahu in the security cabinet added
to their War aims the return of 60,000
Israelis from the communities along the
Lebanon border returning to them to
their homes they have been living as
displaced people ever since these
tensions started rising in October then
we had the pager account whether that
was coincidence or not there's a growing
view Matthew and I'm sure you've
reflected it on the program that it was
a kind of a use it or lose it moment as
is that some hisbah operatives
understood that something was wrong with
the system Israel had to use this weapon
um in other words or else they would not
would they would lose this kind of tool
and yet again today even with the
buzzing of the aircraft lower than ever
before there's this constant message
from Israel we know where you are and we
can get you even in your hands and only
in the last 10 15 minutes we've seen
Anthony Lincoln this time is in Paris
he's been shuffling around both the
region and other Western capitals again
asking pleading for deescalation but
every step is the the opposite of that
where is diplomacy do you think within
all of what we're seeing well Amos
Hawkin who is the envoy uh for President
Biden to work on the Lebanon front what
has been called since the beginning the
second front he was in Tel Aviv when
these tensions were ratcheted up when
they added this New Lebanon War aim uh
to to their their their list already the
the Gaza list including of course
bringing the hostages home Hassan n
today made it clear that the Border
would not be safe and calm that the
residents would not return home in the
North of Israel until there was a
ceasefire in Gaza that is the view of
Hezbollah that's the view of Iran the
only way to end this violence is to end
the Gaza War and yes Anthony blinkin is
continuing to shuttle going from he went
to Cairo to talk to the Egyptians who
played a leading role and there's a new
proposal on the table it doesn't seem as
though it's one that can be acceptable
to uh yes um to sinir from everything we
know about this most uh militant the
most uh even Hamas people describe as
the most violent in a violent
organization that he would not want to
leave the Gaza Strip but that offering
is now being put on the table it seems
from the reports that we've seen that in
exchange for releasing all of the
hostages that there would be so-called
safe passage for senoir and other Hamas
leaders to leave Gaza but there are many
who are saying that's just not the ilk
of Sino they're not going to leave I was
talking about Anthony lincol and the
message around Lebanon and deescalation
it's worth just playing that clip in the
next few seconds France and the United
States are united uh in calling for
restraint and urging DS alation uh when
it comes to the Middle East in general
uh and when it comes to Lebanon in
particular we continue to work to get a
ceasefire for Gaza over the finish line
and as we discussed uh with some of you
just a day ago uh in Egypt uh we believe
that remains uh both possible uh and
necessary but meanwhile uh we don't want
to see any escalatory actions by any
party that make that even more difficult
well it is an extremely difficult situ
ation at the moment for diplomacy a
final word leas because you have the
Iranians also watching they claim
retaliation yes they have unfinished
business according to them how dangerous
then is this moment that we've arrived
at this is the most dangerous moment
we've seen for decades in the Middle
East and a region that is all too often
plunged into this kind of a violence
there has never there have been many
sadly for people of the region many many
wars but there has never been this kind
of a war which draw draws in so many
players at the same time and so many
players willing to use whatever it takes
to get what they want to take Mr say